
1. Write a C program to create a main process named ‘parent_process’ having 3
child processes without any grandchildren processes.
Trace parent and child processes in the process tree.
Show that child processes are doing addition, subtraction and multiplication
on two variables initialized in the parent_process
10

2. Write a C program to create an orphan process. 05

3. Write a C program to create a zombie process. 05

4. Write a C program to create a main process named ‘parent_process’ having 3
child processes without any grandchildren processes. Child Processes’
names are child_1, child_2, child_3. Trace the position in the process tree.
10

5. Write a C program to create a main process named ‘parent_process’ having
‘n’ child processes without any grandchildren processes. Child Processes’
names are child_1, child_2, child_3,......., child_n. Trace the position in the
process tree. Number of child processes (n) and name of child processes will
be given in the CLI of Linux based systems.
Example:
$ ./parent_process 3 child_1 child_2 child_3


106. Write a C program to create a main process named ‘parent_process’ having 3
child processes without any grandchildren processes. Child Processes’
names are child_1, child_2, child_3. Trace the position in the process tree.
10
7. Write a C program to analyze the effect of local and global variables on a
parent process and a child process.
05
8. Write a C program to show how two related processes can communicate with
each other by an unnamed pipe.
05
9. Write a C program to show how two unrelated processes can communicate
with each other by a named pipe.
05
10. Write a C program to show how two related processes can communicate with
each other by a named pipe.
05
11. Write a C program to show how two unrelated processes can communicate
with each other by a message queue.
05
12. Write a C program to show how two related processes can communicate with
each other by a message queue.
05
13. Write a C program to show how data inconsistency arises in a multi-threaded
process.
05
14. Write a C program to show how data inconsistency arises in two related
processes (e.g., parent & child processes) when they share a memory space.
05
15. Write a C program to show how data inconsistency arises in two unrelated
processes when they share a memory space.
05
16. Write a C program to handle racing situations in a multi-threaded process. 05
17. Write a C program to handle racing situations in multiple unrelated processes. 05
18. Write a C program to show the usage of a Counter semaphore. 05
19. Write a C program for creating a multi-threaded process and check:
A. If one thread in the process calls fork(), does the new process
duplicate all threads, or is the new process single-threaded?
B. If a thread invokes the exec() system call, does it replace the entire
code of the process?
C. If exec() is called immediately after forking, will all threads be
duplicated?
1520. Write a multithreaded program that calculates various statistical values for a
list of numbers. This program will be passed a series of numbers on the
command line and will then create three separate worker threads. One thread
will determine the average of the numbers, the second will determine the
maximum value, and the third will determine the minimum value. For
example, suppose your program is passed the integers
90 81 78 95 79 72 85
The program will report
A. The average value is 82
B. The minimum value is 72
C. The maximum value is 95
The variables representing the average, minimum, and maximum values will
be stored globally. The worker threads will set these values, and the parent
thread will output the values once the workers have exited.
15
21. The Fibonacci sequence is the series of numbers 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, ....
Formally, it can be expressed as:
fib0 = 0
fib1 = 1
fib
n = fibn−1 + fibn−2
Write a multithreaded program that generates the Fibonacci sequence. This
program should work as follows: On the command line, the user will enter the
number of Fibonacci numbers that the program is to generate. The program
will then create a separate thread that will generate the Fibonacci numbers,
placing the sequence in data that can be shared by the threads (an array is
probably the most convenient data structure). When the thread finishes
execution, the parent thread will output the sequence generated by the child
thread. Because the parent thread cannot begin outputting the Fibonacci
sequence until the child thread finishes, the parent thread will have to wait for
the child thread to finish.
15
22. Implement a server-client model to provide services to client processes
running in different terminals. Explain what you experience when you:
● Server process being a single threaded process tries to provide
services to multiple client processes.
● Server process being a multi-threaded process tries to provide
services to multiple client processes.
● Server process being a single threaded process tries to provide
services to multiple client processes with multiple child processes.